# Comparison-of-Blurring-Smoothing-Using-Open-CV
Filters are the most basic operations that can be executed on images to extract information. One of its type is blurring/smoothing the image. Blurring an image is the first step to reducing the size of images without changing their appearance too much and blurring removes high-frequency components from the image, it helps in avoiding aliasing. Blurring can be thought of as a low-pass filtering operation, and is accomplished using a simple intuitive kernel matrix. In this proposed model I plan to achieve comparison of various filter algorithms based on the output blur produced by them for the same input image. To help recognize the difference in working of each respective filter I have also proposed to add a trackbar on output of every filter in order to better understand the difference and increase interactive nature of the project. The filters that I plan to demonstrate in my project are:- 1. Gaussian Filter 2. Homogeneous Blur 3. Median Filter 4. Cone filter 5. Box filter 6. Bilateral Filter The trackbar will be used to take input of kernel size for Gaussian Filter, Homogeneous Blur, Median Filter, Bilateral Filter which will offer 21 different value to users. Whereas the box filter, cone filter will be implemented using a fixed matrix of size 3*3 and 5*5 respectively. To implement blurring using above mentioned filters we use software tool OpenCv. It has a wide range of modules that helps with a lot of computer vision problems implementation. Its architecture and memory management provides you with a framework in which you can work with images and videos without worrying about allocating and de-allocating memory for your images.
